Queueing and Other Probabilistic Models on Networks
        On the Large Deviations of Resequencing Queue Size: 2-M/M/1 Case. Ye Xia and David Tse. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 54, no. 9, September 2008. Page 4107-4118. A shorter version published in Infocom 2004.
        In this paper, we analyze a model where packet disorder is caused by multi-path routing. Packets are generated according to a Poisson process. Then, they arrive at a disordering network modeled by two parallel M/M/1 queues, and are routed to each of the queues according to an independent Bernoulli process. A resequencing buffer follows the disordering network. In such a model, the packet resequencing delay is known. However, the size of the resequencing queue is unknown. We derive the probability for the large deviations of the queue size. 
        Analysis on Packet Resequencing for Reliable Network Protocols. Ye Xia and David Tse. Performance Evaluation, Vol. 61, 2005. Pages 299-32. A shorter version published in Infocom 2003.
        In this paper, we model packet disordering by adding an IID random propagation delay to each packet and derive simple expressions for the required buffer size and the resequencing delay. We demonstrate that these two quantities can be significant and show that the resequencing problem becomes worse as the link speed increases. 
        On the Large Deviation of Resequencing Queue Size - A Generalizable Argument involving Moment Generating Functions. Ye Xia. A very rough draft.
        This is a draft, which intends to extend the Infocom 2004 paper. Here, we allow the arrival process to be more general than the Poisson process, such as the renewal process or Markov process, provided that the process satisfies the large deviation principle. The service process can be similarly generalized. The disordering network consists of two parallel queues. We derived the large-deviation type formula for the resequencing buffer size, which involves the moment generating functions. I believe the resulting formula is correct because it works for the case when the disordering network is two parallel M/M/1 queues. We assumed nice conditions for now and showed half of the inequality. We haven’t been able to show the other half of the inequality. The details are technical. 
        Inference of Link Delay in Communication Networks. Ye Xia and David Tse. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol 24, mo. 12. December, 2006.
        This paper studies the feasibility and algorithms for inferring the delay at each link in a communication network based on a large number of end-to-end measurements. The restriction is that we are not allowed to measure directly on each link and can only observe the route delays. It is assumed that we have considerable flexibility in choosing which routes to measure. We investigate two different cases: 1) each link delay is a constant and 2) each link delay is modeled as a random variable from a family of distributions with unknown parameters. We answer whether such indirect inference is possible at all, and when possible, how it can be carried out. The emphasis is on developing the maximum-likelihood estimators for scenario 2) when the link delays are modeled by exponential random variables or mixtures of exponentials. We have derived solutions based on the EM algorithm and demonstrated that, even though they do not necessarily reflect the true model parameters, they do seem to maximize the likelihood in most cases and that the resulting probability density functions match the true functions on regions where the probability mass concentrates. 
        Statistical Properties of a Class of Randomized Binary Search Algorithms. Ye Xia and Shigang Chen. Manuscript in preparation.
        The first half is basic probability calculation. The second half is more interesting. The results are quite clean and nice. In this paper, we analyze the statistical properties of a randomized binary search algorithm and its variants. The algorithms are motivated by how to conduct distributed search for a file in a peer-to-peer or content distribution network. The basic discrete version of the problem is as follows. Suppose there are total m items, numbered 1, 2, ..., m, out of which the first k items are marked, where k is unknown. The objective is to choose one of the marked items uniformly at random. In each step of the basic algorithm, a number y is chosen uniformly at random from 1 to x, where x is the number chosen in the previous step and is equal to m in the first step. A distributed query is made about y. If the server responsible for y replies that y is marked, the algorithm returns. We also consider batch versions of this algorithm in which multiple numbers are chosen in each step and multiple queries are made in parallel. We give the mean and variance (exact or asymptotic) for the number of search steps in each version of the algorithm, and when possible, we give its distribution. We also analyze the access or hit pattern to the entire search space.
        Multiple-Choice Random Network for Server Load Balancing. Ye Xia, Alin Dobra and Sueng Chul Han. IEEE INFOCOM 2007. May 2007. A longer version is under journal review.